# Troubleshooting

This chapter provides details about typical configuration issues.

---

**The Nagios® server shows nothing: no error, no warning, no “OK”.**

If the Nagios® server shows nothing or just “TYPO3” (depending on the version of the Nagios® plugin you are using), but no error, no warning, no “OK” message, your configuration might be invalid.

Please check the data that the Nagios® server retrieves. Run the following command(s) on the command line on your Nagios® server (replace `example.com` with the correct URI of your TYPO3 server).

If ``wget`` is installed on the server:

```bash
wget --quiet --output-document - "https://example.com/nagios"
```

If ``curl`` is installed on the server:

```bash
curl "https://example.com/nagios"
```

Review the output generated by the TYPO3 extension “Nagios”.

---

**The output of the extension shows an “access denied” message.**

Make sure that you have added the correct IP4/IPv6 address of the Nagios® server to the comma-separated list of allowed Nagios® servers in the [extension configuration](../AdministrationAndConfiguration/Configuration/Security/Index.md).

Check the web server's access log and determine which IPv4/IPv6 address accesses the extension (look for requests such as `/nagios`) and compare this with your [extension configuration](../AdministrationAndConfiguration/Configuration/Security/Index.md).

If the TYPO3 instance runs behind a proxy or caching server, load balancer, CDN solution, etc. follow the instructions in section [TYPO3 Behind a Proxy](../AdministrationAndConfiguration/Typo3BehindAProxy/Index.md).

---

**The extension list shows loaded extensions only.**

Make sure that the feature *Loaded Extensions Only* is **disabled** in the [extension configuration](../AdministrationAndConfiguration/Configuration/Features/Index.md).

---

**Some characters are missing in the “site name” (e.g. German umlauts).**

The TYPO3 extension “Nagios” filters special characters such as German umlauts, brackets, etc. See description and additional notes in chapter [extension configuration](../AdministrationAndConfiguration/Configuration/Features/Index.md) for further details.

---

**Some TYPO3 details are missing after I updated the TYPO3 extension to v3.x**

See section [Updates from v1.x or v2.x to v3.x](../InstallationAndSetup/VersionUpdates/Index.md) for further details. Note that you can easily [extend the functionality](../ExtendingFunctionality/Index.md) and add custom features if required.

---

**I have a problem that is not covered by the documentation**

See [support options](../Support/Index.md) for contact details.

---

## Chapter Overview

- [Introduction](../Introduction/Index.md)
- [Installation and Setup](../InstallationAndSetup/Index.md)
- [Administration and Configuration](../AdministrationAndConfiguration/Index.md)
- [Security Aspects](../SecurityAspects/Index.md)
- [Extending Functionality](../ExtendingFunctionality/Index.md)
- **Troubleshooting**
- [Support](../Support/Index.md)
- [Changelog](../Changelog/Index.md)
